Hey hang on guys this is Dave 2d and
this is my review of the ux305 that is
made by Asus now this is a notebook that
is going to be getting quite a bit of
attention in the near future and
currently has quite a bit of buzz around
it but mostly because of its similarity
to the upcoming Apple MacBook the
12-inch one and it's similar in specs
but almost half the price so people are
interested in this thing I've had my
review unit for over two weeks I've used
it very extensively now when I do a
review on a notebook especially if
something that is important like this
one I really try to use it as a daily
like I've used it probably realistically
over 20 hours of extensive use I'd like
to take my time with these things but
here's my review so just a quick
unboxing here it's a nice and simple box
so when you open it up notebook is on
the left and your AC adapter and
Ethernet dongle are on the right I'll
get into more details about the AC
adapter and the Ethernet port in a bit
and we lift up the notebook underneath
there's a layer of pamphlets and other
accessories the unit I'm reviewing is
the Microsoft Signature Edition it's got
a Broadwell intel core m 5y10
surprisingly only runs at 800 megahertz
but it can bump up to 2 gigahertz with
turbo boost got a 13.3 inch 1080p screen
eight gigs of ram 250 gigs of SSD it's
got integrated HD 5300 graphics and all
of this for $700 in a very thin and
light package that only weighs 2.65
pounds the top surface of the notebook
is brushed aluminum now if you've done
like a radial pattern and this surface
actually doesn't show fingerprints that
easily now the bottom of the notebook is
also aluminum but they've done it in a
different finish it's got that satin
finish that's similar to the way Mac
books are done it's got four rubber feet
that are actually really grippy which I
like and two speakers on the left and
right here now this finish of the
aluminum does show fingerprints more
easily and you'll notice how this whole
thing has a purplish tint to it under
certain lights it kind of looks black or
dark grey but under more natural
lighting it does look a little purple
they call this color obsidian stone but
it's basically like a dull plum or
plant color but it looks alright it's
also supposed to come in white in what
they call a ceramic alloy color but I
haven't actually seen the white one in
person so I'm not sure how that looks
now in terms of its size it's a little
bit smaller than a 13-inch MacBook Air
and it's also a little bit lighter here
you can see the two notebooks end to end
the asus ux305 is also a little bit
shorter now on the left side there's two
USB 3 ports and an SD slot I also want
to draw your attention to the finish of
the side of the top lid if you look
closely you'll see that there's a rough
finish on the edge of the top lid when
you touch it it almost feels like
sandblasted glass and on the right side
there's a hole for the AC adapter
another USB 3 a micro HDMI and a
headphone jack
so something I noticed with the SD slot
it is a very loose-fitting slot there's
no click or any kind of friction or
resistance when you put your card in so
it actually slides in and out really
easily I would even say a little too
easily it's really not a big deal but I
just thought I should mention it there
was a little bit of flex on the screen
nothing major but the bottom chassis was
more flexible than I thought it would be
there was no problems with it just
unexpected this notebook uses a 45 watt
AC adapter it's pretty small but the
prongs don't fold in and when you're low
on battery the orange light flashes to
let you know I found that it took about
four or four and a half hours to fully
charge the battery and if you're
wondering what that white light for that
little light bulb icon is it lights up
white when the lid is open and the
screen is on and when you close the lid
and it's hibernating it's slowly flashes
white not very exciting so this is
really nice of Asus they've included an
Ethernet dongle in case you want to use
one it's simple it's Auto detected by
the software and it works the screen is
a matte finish 1920 by 1080 it's not
very bright but for a notebook this size
it's adequate it is an IPS display so
the colors are decent but it's not
amazing but the viewing angles are
pretty good overall I think the screen
is decent you need a better screen they
will have a qHD version in the near
future but I think for an ultrabook with
this processor the 1080p screen is
probably where you want to be keep in
mind that the 1080p version is not a
touchscreen but the quad HD one will be
so if you really want a touchscreen
you're gonna have to hold out for that
high res one this thing also has a 720p
webcam up here and it works as
advertised it does webcamming in 720p
the keyboard is okay the first couple of
days I was using it I didn't really like
it it has a very short trowel I think
it's less than one millimeter and it
doesn't feel particularly clicky or
tactile but it gets the job done
it doesn't feel cramped or anything but
I don't love it I think it's a very
average keyboard it doesn't have
backlighting but I'm one of those people
that turns off backlighting so I'm okay
with that
the caps lock key does have a little LED
to let you know when it's on my biggest
beef with this notebook was the trackpad
it wasn't a terrible trackpad but it was
significantly worse than any other
component on this notebook it really
stuck at sometimes a trackpad wouldn't
work at all
sometimes it would skip around sometimes
I was getting double clicks when I was
only signal clicking sometimes wouldn't
register double clicks but the biggest
problem is that the right button had
this
weird double-click to it so I thought
this might be a defect on my particular
notebook so I sent it back they send me
another one same problem I checked out
the demo model at the store
it had a very similar problem not
exactly the same but there's definitely
something weird going on with that right
button and the thing is if you only use
this notebook for a little bit it's not
a big deal
but if you use this thing for two weeks
you definitely start to notice it I have
to admit I'm very picky about trackpads
but I really didn't like this one I'll
just leave it at that so in the back of
the notebook there these two little feet
that kind of lift the notebook up when
you open the screen presumably for
better ventilation because remember this
notebook is fanless I'm not sure what
they're made it of but it's not rubber
just out of curiosity I wanted to see
the thermals of a fanless notebook so I
use the Fleur again on the left is the
ux305 and on the right is a 2014 13 inch
MacBook Air both of these were running
benchmarks for about an hour so they are
as hot as they can get and it's pretty
obvious the ux305 actually doesn't get
that hot until throttles the cpu down
when it gets a little warm so it's never
going to get super hot okay speakers
this thing has some software called
audio by ice power which has different
profiles for different kinds of sounds
there's some slight variation when
you're using headphones but if you're
using speakers these different profiles
all sound the same the speaker's
themselves are really small and the
sound quality is actually pretty poor
but for an ultrabook this size you kind
of expect that right they're also a
little quiet it's hard to break 70
decibels with them but this is what they
sound like
okay so gaming I was super curious to
see how an 800 megahertz CPU would play
games and I guess I was kind of
surprised that it could play games at
all but they play really poorly
okay so first up dota 2 with everything
on low lowest resolution possible this
thing runs at around 20 25 frames per
second heroes of the storm actually did
worse so with everything turned low and
lowest resolution I was getting around
10 frames per second so this is actually
unplayable maybe this is something that
Blizzard will tune on their end to
optimize for this CPU and GPU but in its
current state it's unplayable and out of
curiosity I ran the BioShock Infinite
benchmark at lowest res lowest settings
getting around 20 frames per second not
very good but the one and only game that
I could get to kind of run at a playable
framerate was counter-strike go this is
very undemanding game before the people
that are curious out there you can kind
of play csgo if your student and you're
kind of thinking of picking this up I
say go for it because you can't play
games very well and you're forced to
just do your work the battery life on
this notebook is actually really
impressive it's a 45 watt hour battery
but I was able to get almost three hours
of gameplay I know the frame rates
aren't very good I mean I was playing at
single-digit fps for a little bit but
three hours of games on a notebook is
really good I was able to get six hours
watching movies off the drive and just
for regular use with screen at about 3/4
brightness I was able to get nine hours
of battery life that's you know what for
a 45 watt hour battery that's pretty
nice alright so my closing thoughts on
this thing this is a notebook that I
think is going to be an excellent option
for a lot of people it's an inexpensive
notebook at 700 bucks it's got a great
screen it's thin it's light it's got a
really good battery life it's built well
the keyboard is pretty good there's a
lot of things to love about it the one
thing that I don't love about it is that
trackpad so if you need a really great
trackpad for just kind of the whole user
experience you kind of want to look
elsewhere but if you're comfortable with
using an okay trackpad or if you just
always plug it up to an external Mouse
this is a great notebook it's a great
value and I'm surprised that Asus could
offer something of this caliber at this
price point so kudos to them this is a
beast of a machine for that price so
that's the end of the review I hope you
guys liked it if you liked it give me
some thumbs and if you loved it give me
some
it's been nice I'll see you guys next
time